.TH folialint 1 "2020 sep 02" "version 2.0 "
.
.SH NAME
folialint \(hy check validity of FoLiA documents
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
folialint [options] FILE(S)
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.
.B folialint
will check the validity of FoLiA files on a surface level:

\(hy Is the tag structure according to the definition?

\(hy Are all required elements and attributes present?

\(hy Are the attributes and values valid?

\(hy Are all annotations correctly declared?

\(hy Is all text consistent?
.
.SH OPTIONS
.
.B --output
file
.RS
write output to 'file'. (default is stdout).
Assumes only 1 inputfile.
.RE
.
.B --nooutput
.RS
suppress al output except errors
.RE
.
.B --nochecktext
.RS
Disable checking text consistency. (for older FoLiA versions this wasn't forced to be so. Which is
.B wrong
)
.RE
.
.B --fixtext
.RS
Attempt to fix text problems like wrong offset's. Might be dangerous, and the
default is to DON'T do it.
.RE
.
.B -a
or
.B --autodeclare
.RS
Attempt to automaticly fix missing annotations. (default: false)
.RE
.
.B --strip
.RS
strip all information from the file that makes comparison hard.
Notably date/time information.
.
This also enable '--canonical' output, meaning that otherwise unsorted tags
are output in the same order every time.
.
.RE
.
.B --permissive
.RS
Accept documents with missing namespace declarations.
.RE
.
.B --warn
.RS
add some extra (warning) checks:

\(hy About unused set declarations

\(hy About possible incompatabilities between the current library version and
the document version.
.RE
.
.B --canonical
or
.B --KANON
.RS
output annotation declarations and FoLiA nodes in a fixed (canonical) order.
This might make tree comparisons easier.
.RE
.
.B -d
or
.B --debug level
.RS
run with a debug level of
.B level
.RE
.
.B -V
or
.B --version
.RS
Show VERSION
.RE
.
.B -h
or
.B --help
.RS
Show some help
.RE
.
.SH BUGS
possible
.
.SH AUTHORS
Ko van der Sloot: lamasoftware@science.ru.nl
